1.To check git and version use  git --version

2.First of all we need to CONFIG the git using 
 Username and email
 Code to config username and email is,
 git config --global user.name "Jeeva A"
 git config --global user.email "jeevaaru2000@gmail.com"
 now its configured.to check email and username in git type git config user.name or user.email to check the config status.

3. Then we ne to initialize the git into the Repository.Repository is nothing but a folder.
For that use    git init 

4. Now we need stage the file to the Repository. staging is a file to add to the git Repository,
For that use git add "file name"(without quoatation)   git add .  here this dot represnts to add all files.

5. Next step is to Commit the file. Commit is the main step       before pushing the file. Commit command save changes to the local Repository
For that use   git Commit -m "message related to the file"
here -m is a message.

6. git diff
this command is to check the difference between what the file was and what the file is.to check what changes have done.

7. git restore filename.txt
this command restore the file which saved initially after modify.

8. git branch "branch name"--> without double quotes
branches is used to created which is exact copy of current working main branch.
git branch -M main --> to renaming master to main branch.
i. git branch --> to list the all branch 
ii. git branch d "branch name" --> to delete the branch (will not able to delete the unmerged file)
iii. git branch D "branch name" --> force to delete the branch
iv. git branch -m "name to rename the current 
ly working active branch"

9. git checkout "branch name"--> witout double quotes 
used to switch to the branch
 git checkout master to go main branch

 10. git remote add origin "link from github"

 11. git push -u origin main

 12. git pull origin main --> pulls files to the terminal from the github Repository.

13. git merge "branch name"

 ---> idealy, we need to do git add git Commit always after merge before merge , before push and after pull.

